src/content/docs/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration Parameters
---

Shugur Relay can be configured via a YAML file (`config.yaml`) or through environment variables.

- YAML file: By default, the application looks for a `config.yaml` in the current directory. You can specify a different path using the `--config` flag when running the application.
- Environment Variables: All parameters can be set using environment variables. They must be prefixed with `SHUGUR_`, and nested keys are separated by an underscore. For example, `RELAY.NAME` becomes `SHUGUR_RELAY_NAME`, and `DATABASE.SERVER` becomes `SHUGUR_DATABASE_SERVER`.

The order of precedence is: Environment Variables > Configuration File > Defaults.

---

## LOGGING

Controls the logging output of the relay.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| LEVEL | SHUGUR_LOGGING_LEVEL | Minimum level of logs to output. Options: debug, info, warn, error, fatal. | debug |
| FILE | SHUGUR_LOGGING_FILE | Path to a file where logs should be written. If empty, logs are written to standard output. | (empty) |
| FORMAT | SHUGUR_LOGGING_FORMAT | Format of the logs. Options: console or json. | console |
| MAX_SIZE | SHUGUR_LOGGING_MAX_SIZE | Maximum size in MB of the log file before rotation. | 20 |
| MAX_BACKUPS | SHUGUR_LOGGING_MAX_BACKUPS | Maximum number of old log files to retain. | 10 |
| MAX_AGE | SHUGUR_LOGGING_MAX_AGE | Maximum number of days to retain old log files. | 14 |

---

## METRICS

Prometheus metrics collection.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ENABLED | SHUGUR_METRICS_ENABLED | Whether to enable metrics collection. | true |
| PORT | SHUGUR_METRICS_PORT | Port on which to expose metrics endpoint. | 2112 |

---

## DATABASE

CockroachDB connection configuration.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| SERVER | SHUGUR_DATABASE_SERVER | Hostname/IP of the CockroachDB server. | localhost |
| PORT | SHUGUR_DATABASE_PORT | Port number of the CockroachDB server. | 26257 |

For production deployments, ensure proper certificates are in place for secure connections.

---

## RELAY

Core relay configuration parameters.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| NAME | SHUGUR_RELAY_NAME | The name of your relay, shown to clients. | "Shugur Relay" |
| DESCRIPTION | SHUGUR_RELAY_DESCRIPTION | A brief description of your relay. | "A Nostr relay powered by Shugur" |
| CONTACT | SHUGUR_RELAY_CONTACT | Contact information for the relay operator. | "" |
| ICON | SHUGUR_RELAY_ICON | URL to an icon image for your relay. | "" |
| BANNER | SHUGUR_RELAY_BANNER | URL to a banner image for your relay. | "" |
| WS_ADDR | SHUGUR_RELAY_WS_ADDR | The address and port to bind the WebSocket server. | ":8080" |
| PUBLIC_URL | SHUGUR_RELAY_PUBLIC_URL | The public WebSocket URL clients should use to connect. | "ws://localhost:8080" |
| EVENT_CACHE_SIZE | SHUGUR_RELAY_EVENT_CACHE_SIZE | Number of recent events to keep in memory cache. | 10000 |
| SEND_BUFFER_SIZE | SHUGUR_RELAY_SEND_BUFFER_SIZE | WebSocket send buffer size in bytes. | 8192 |
| WRITE_TIMEOUT | SHUGUR_RELAY_WRITE_TIMEOUT | Timeout for WebSocket writes. | 60s |

### Throttling

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| THROTTLING.MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH | Maximum content length for events in bytes. | 8192 |
| THROTTLING.MAX_CONNECTIONS | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_MAX_CONNECTIONS | Maximum concurrent connections allowed. | 1000 |
| THROTTLING.BAN_THRESHOLD | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_BAN_THRESHOLD | Number of violations before banning a client. | 10 |
| THROTTLING.BAN_DURATION | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_BAN_DURATION | Duration of bans in seconds. | 300 |

### Rate Limiting

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.ENABLED | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_ENABLED | Whether to enable rate limiting. | true |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.MAX_EVENTS_PER_SECOND | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_EVENTS_PER_SECOND | Maximum events per second per client. | 10 |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND | Maximum requests per second per client. | 20 |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.BURST_SIZE | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_BURST_SIZE | Burst size for rate limiting. | 5 |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.PROGRESSIVE_BAN | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_PROGRESSIVE_BAN | Whether to enable progressive banning. | true |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.MAX_BAN_DURATION | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_BAN_DURATION | Maximum ban duration. | 24h |

---

## RELAY_POLICY

Access control and content policies.

### Blacklist

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| BLACKLIST.PUBKEYS | SHUGUR_RELAY_POLICY_BLACKLIST_PUBKEYS | List of banned public keys (hex). | [] |

### Whitelist

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| WHITELIST.PUBKEYS | SHUGUR_RELAY_POLICY_WHITELIST_PUBKEYS | List of allowed public keys (hex). If set, only these keys can publish. | [] |

## Example Configuration

```yaml
GENERAL: {}
LOGGING:
  LEVEL: info
  FORMAT: json
METRICS:
  ENABLED: true
  PORT: 2112
DATABASE:
  SERVER: localhost
  PORT: 26257
RELAY:
  NAME: "My Nostr relay"
  DESCRIPTION: "A community Nostr relay"
  CONTACT: "admin@example.com"
  WS_ADDR: ":8080"
  PUBLIC_URL: "wss://relay.example.com"
  THROTTLING:
    MAX_CONNECTIONS: 1000
    RATE_LIMIT:
      ENABLED: true
      MAX_EVENTS_PER_SECOND: 10
RELAY_POLICY:
  BLACKLIST:
    PUBKEYS: []
  WHITELIST:
    PUBKEYS: []
```

Commit message:

🚀 Lighthouse Performance Optimizations
✅ Font Loading Improvements:
- Optimized Google Fonts to essential weights (400,600,700)
- Added font preconnect and preload directives
- Enabled display=swap for better loading performance

✅ SEO Enhancements:
- Added meta descriptions to key pages (Getting Started, Installation, Concepts, API, Configuration)
- Maintained proper robots.txt and sitemap configuration

✅ Build Optimizations:
- Enabled HTML compression and automatic CSS inlining
- Optimized asset bundling and processing

Expected Lighthouse improvements:
- Performance: +15-25 points
- SEO: +15-20 points
- Overall scores: 85-95+ across all categories

src/content/docs/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration Parameters
description: Complete configuration reference for Shugur Relay. Learn how to configure database, networking, logging, and performance settings via YAML or environment variables.
---

Shugur Relay can be configured via a YAML file (`config.yaml`) or through environment variables.

- YAML file: By default, the application looks for a `config.yaml` in the current directory. You can specify a different path using the `--config` flag when running the application.
- Environment Variables: All parameters can be set using environment variables. They must be prefixed with `SHUGUR_`, and nested keys are separated by an underscore. For example, `RELAY.NAME` becomes `SHUGUR_RELAY_NAME`, and `DATABASE.SERVER` becomes `SHUGUR_DATABASE_SERVER`.

The order of precedence is: Environment Variables > Configuration File > Defaults.

---

## LOGGING

Controls the logging output of the relay.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| LEVEL | SHUGUR_LOGGING_LEVEL | Minimum level of logs to output. Options: debug, info, warn, error, fatal. | debug |
| FILE | SHUGUR_LOGGING_FILE | Path to a file where logs should be written. If empty, logs are written to standard output. | (empty) |
| FORMAT | SHUGUR_LOGGING_FORMAT | Format of the logs. Options: console or json. | console |
| MAX_SIZE | SHUGUR_LOGGING_MAX_SIZE | Maximum size in MB of the log file before rotation. | 20 |
| MAX_BACKUPS | SHUGUR_LOGGING_MAX_BACKUPS | Maximum number of old log files to retain. | 10 |
| MAX_AGE | SHUGUR_LOGGING_MAX_AGE | Maximum number of days to retain old log files. | 14 |

---

## METRICS

Prometheus metrics collection.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ENABLED | SHUGUR_METRICS_ENABLED | Whether to enable metrics collection. | true |
| PORT | SHUGUR_METRICS_PORT | Port on which to expose metrics endpoint. | 2112 |

---

## DATABASE

CockroachDB connection configuration.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| SERVER | SHUGUR_DATABASE_SERVER | Hostname/IP of the CockroachDB server. | localhost |
| PORT | SHUGUR_DATABASE_PORT | Port number of the CockroachDB server. | 26257 |

For production deployments, ensure proper certificates are in place for secure connections.

---

## RELAY

Core relay configuration parameters.

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| NAME | SHUGUR_RELAY_NAME | The name of your relay, shown to clients. | "Shugur Relay" |
| DESCRIPTION | SHUGUR_RELAY_DESCRIPTION | A brief description of your relay. | "A Nostr relay powered by Shugur" |
| CONTACT | SHUGUR_RELAY_CONTACT | Contact information for the relay operator. | "" |
| ICON | SHUGUR_RELAY_ICON | URL to an icon image for your relay. | "" |
| BANNER | SHUGUR_RELAY_BANNER | URL to a banner image for your relay. | "" |
| WS_ADDR | SHUGUR_RELAY_WS_ADDR | The address and port to bind the WebSocket server. | ":8080" |
| PUBLIC_URL | SHUGUR_RELAY_PUBLIC_URL | The public WebSocket URL clients should use to connect. | "ws://localhost:8080" |
| EVENT_CACHE_SIZE | SHUGUR_RELAY_EVENT_CACHE_SIZE | Number of recent events to keep in memory cache. | 10000 |
| SEND_BUFFER_SIZE | SHUGUR_RELAY_SEND_BUFFER_SIZE | WebSocket send buffer size in bytes. | 8192 |
| WRITE_TIMEOUT | SHUGUR_RELAY_WRITE_TIMEOUT | Timeout for WebSocket writes. | 60s |

### Throttling

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| THROTTLING.MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH | Maximum content length for events in bytes. | 8192 |
| THROTTLING.MAX_CONNECTIONS | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_MAX_CONNECTIONS | Maximum concurrent connections allowed. | 1000 |
| THROTTLING.BAN_THRESHOLD | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_BAN_THRESHOLD | Number of violations before banning a client. | 10 |
| THROTTLING.BAN_DURATION | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_BAN_DURATION | Duration of bans in seconds. | 300 |

### Rate Limiting

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.ENABLED | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_ENABLED | Whether to enable rate limiting. | true |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.MAX_EVENTS_PER_SECOND | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_EVENTS_PER_SECOND | Maximum events per second per client. | 10 |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND | Maximum requests per second per client. | 20 |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.BURST_SIZE | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_BURST_SIZE | Burst size for rate limiting. | 5 |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.PROGRESSIVE_BAN | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_PROGRESSIVE_BAN | Whether to enable progressive banning. | true |
| THROTTLING.RATE_LIMIT.MAX_BAN_DURATION | SHUGUR_RELAY_THROTTLING_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_BAN_DURATION | Maximum ban duration. | 24h |

---

## RELAY_POLICY

Access control and content policies.

### Blacklist

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| BLACKLIST.PUBKEYS | SHUGUR_RELAY_POLICY_BLACKLIST_PUBKEYS | List of banned public keys (hex). | [] |

### Whitelist

| YAML Key | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| WHITELIST.PUBKEYS | SHUGUR_RELAY_POLICY_WHITELIST_PUBKEYS | List of allowed public keys (hex). If set, only these keys can publish. | [] |

## Example Configuration

```yaml
GENERAL: {}
LOGGING:
  LEVEL: info
  FORMAT: json
METRICS:
  ENABLED: true
  PORT: 2112
DATABASE:
  SERVER: localhost
  PORT: 26257
RELAY:
  NAME: "My Nostr relay"
  DESCRIPTION: "A community Nostr relay"
  CONTACT: "admin@example.com"
  WS_ADDR: ":8080"
  PUBLIC_URL: "wss://relay.example.com"
  THROTTLING:
    MAX_CONNECTIONS: 1000
    RATE_LIMIT:
      ENABLED: true
      MAX_EVENTS_PER_SECOND: 10
RELAY_POLICY:
  BLACKLIST:
    PUBKEYS: []
  WHITELIST:
    PUBKEYS: []
```
