src/content/docs/nostr-web.mdx, before:

---
title: Nostr Web
description: Complete guide to browsing and publishing decentralized websites on Nostr
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Nostr Web enables hosting and browsing static websites as Nostr events, creating censorship-resistant, decentralized web publishing.

<Aside type="tip">
  **Quick Start:** Install the browser extension and visit any Nostr Web site like `nweb.shugur.com` to experience decentralized browsing.
</Aside>

## What is Nostr Web?

Nostr Web is a protocol and ecosystem for publishing static websites as Nostr events. Instead of traditional web servers, content is stored across Nostr relays, making sites:

- **Censorship-resistant** — Replicated across multiple relays
- **Verifiable** — Cryptographically signed by the author
- **Decentralized** — No single point of failure
- **Accessible** — Works with existing Nostr infrastructure

## Protocol Details

### Event Kinds

| Kind    | Name          | Type        | Purpose                              |
| ------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------ |
| 1125    | Asset         | Regular     | All web assets (HTML, CSS, JS, etc.) |
| 1126    | Page Manifest | Regular     | Links assets per page                |
| 31126   | Site Index    | Addressable | Maps routes (content-addressed)      |
| 11126   | Entrypoint    | Replaceable | Points to current site index         |

### DNS Bootstrap

DNS TXT record at `_nweb.<host>` contains JSON:

```json
{
  "v": 1,
  "pk": "5e56a8f2c91b3d4e7f0a9c1b2d3e4f5a6b7c8d9e0f1a2b3c4d5e6f7a8b9c0d1e",
  "relays": [
    "wss://shu01.shugur.net",
    "wss://shu02.shugur.net",
    "wss://shu03.shugur.net"
  ]
}
```

**Required Fields:**

- `v` — Version (currently `1`)
- `pk` — Public key (hex or npub format)
- `relays` — Array of WebSocket relay URLs

**Note:** The DNS record does NOT contain the site index event ID. Clients query relays for the most recent entrypoint (kind 11126) from the specified pubkey, which points to the current site index (kind 31126). This enables automatic updates without DNS changes.

### Data Flow

```
DNS TXT (_nweb.example.com)
    ↓
Entrypoint (kind 11126) ← Query by pubkey
    ↓
Site Index (kind 31126) ← Reference via 'a' tag
    ↓
Page Manifest (kind 1126) ← Get for specific route
    ↓
Assets (kind 1125) ← HTML, CSS, JS, etc.
```

**Key Change:** DNS is set once. All content updates happen via new entrypoint events pointing to new site indexes, eliminating DNS propagation delays.

### Security Model

#### 1. Author Pinning

DNS TXT record pins the site's public key. All events **MUST** be authored by this public key. Events from other authors are rejected.

#### 2. Content Addressing & Integrity

All assets (kind 1125) **MUST** include SHA256 content hash in the `x` tag:

```json
["x", "a3f9c8b2e1d0..."]
```

This enables:
- **Content deduplication** - Relays can identify identical assets
- **Integrity verification** - Clients verify content matches the hash
- **Efficient caching** - Assets can be cached by hash

#### 3. Content Security Policy (CSP)

Content is rendered in a sandboxed environment with strict CSP:

**Extension Pages:**
```
script-src 'self' 'wasm-unsafe-eval';
object-src 'none';
```

**Sandboxed Pages:**
```
script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval';
style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline';
```

#### 4. Rate Limiting

- **DNS Queries:** Max 10 per host per minute
- **Global Limit:** Max 100 DNS queries per minute across all hosts

### Caching Strategy

#### DNS Records

- **TTL:** Offline only (no expiration)
- **Strategy:** Always fetch fresh from DNS-over-HTTPS
- **Fallback:** Use cache only when offline

#### Site Index (kind 31126)

- **TTL:** 30 seconds
- **Strategy:** Fetch fresh, content-addressed by `d` tag (truncated hash)
- **Fallback:** Use cache if relays offline

#### Entrypoint (kind 11126)

- **TTL:** 0 seconds (always fresh)
- **Strategy:** Always query relays for latest replaceable event
- **Rationale:** Must detect site updates immediately

#### Page Manifests (kind 1126)

- **TTL:** 30 seconds
- **Strategy:** Fetch fresh, identified by event ID
- **Fallback:** Use cache if relays offline

#### Assets (kind 1125)

- **TTL:** 7 days
- **Strategy:** Content-addressed by SHA256 hash (from `x` tag)
- **Cache:** In-memory with LRU eviction (max 500 entries)

## For Publishers: Host Your Site on Nostr

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or later)
- npm or yarn
- A Nostr private key (hex format)
- Access to Nostr relays
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### Installation

#### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone or download the Nostr Web repository:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nw-publisher.git

# Navigate to the nw-publisher directory
cd nw-publisher
```

Alternatively, install directly from npm (recommended):

```bash
npm install -g nw-publisher
```

Or download from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nw-publisher/releases).

#### 2. Install Publisher (if cloned from source)

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Create global command
npm link
```

This creates a global `nw-publisher` command you can use anywhere.

### Quick Start

#### 1. Set Up Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the publisher directory:

```bash
# Required: Your Nostr private key (64-character hex)
NOSTR_SK_HEX="your_private_key_hex_here"

# Required: Relay URLs (comma-separated)
RELAYS="wss://shu01.shugur.net,wss://shu02.shugur.net,wss://shu03.shugur.net"

# Recommended: Your domain (for DNS TXT record generation)
NWEB_HOST="yourdomain.com"

# Optional: Blossom endpoints for media uploads
BLOSSOM_ENDPOINTS="https://blossom.shugur.net"
```

<Aside type="caution">
  **Security:** Never commit `.env` to version control! Add it to `.gitignore`.
</Aside>

#### 2. Publish Your Site

```bash
nw-publisher deploy /path/to/your/site
```

Example:

```bash
nw-publisher deploy ../examples/hello-world
```

#### 3. Set Up DNS

The publisher outputs `_nweb.txt` with instructions. Copy the JSON value into a TXT record:

```
Host: _nweb.yourdomain.com
Type: TXT
Value: {"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://relay.damus.io",...]}
```

**Note:** DNS only needs to be set once! All future site updates happen through new entrypoint events (kind 11126), eliminating DNS propagation delays.

**DNS Provider Examples:**

**Cloudflare:**
```
Type: TXT
Name: _nweb
Content: {"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://..."]}
TTL: Auto
```

**Route 53:**
```
Type: TXT
Name: _nweb.yourdomain.com
Value: "{"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://..."]}"
TTL: 300
```

### Publishing Workflow

```
Static Site Folder
  ├─> Scan files (HTML, CSS, JS, fonts, etc.)
  ├─> Compute SHA256 hashes
  ├─> Sign as Nostr events
  │     └─> Kind 1125: All assets (HTML, CSS, JS, fonts, images)
  ├─> Publish to relays (parallel)
  ├─> Create page manifests (kind 1126)
  ├─> Update site index (kind 31126)
  └─> Update entrypoint (kind 11126)
```

### Smart Caching

The publisher uses intelligent caching to avoid republishing unchanged content:

**Immutable assets** (kind 1125):

- **Cache source:** Nostr relays (queries on every deploy)
- **Cache key:** `${kind}:${content-hash}` (content-addressed)
- **Behavior:** If file unchanged and found on relays, reuses cached event ID
- **Benefit:** Only publishes new/changed assets
- **Reliability:** Always reflects true relay state, no stale local files

**Addressable events** (kind 31126 - Site Index):

- Uses content-addressed `d` tag (first 7-12 chars of content hash)
- Different content = different event
- Each version is preserved on relays

**Replaceable events** (kind 11126 - Entrypoint):

- Always republished to point to current site index
- Only latest event per author is kept
- Ensures clients find the newest version

### Site Structure

**Input (static site):**

```
my-site/
  ├─ index.html       # Home page
  ├─ style.css        # Stylesheet
  ├─ app.js           # JavaScript
  └─ about.html       # Subpage (optional)
```

**Output:**

```
my-site/
  ├─ _nweb.txt        # DNS setup instructions
  └─ _nweb.txt.json   # DNS TXT JSON (ready to paste)
```

### Advanced Usage

#### Force Full Republish

```bash
# Rebuild cache from relays
nw-publisher deploy /path/to/site --rebuild-cache
```

#### Custom Relays

```bash
RELAYS="wss://custom-relay.example.com" nw-publisher deploy /path/to/site
```

#### Multi-Site Publishing

```bash
# Same pubkey, different sites
nw-publisher deploy ../examples/hello-world
nw-publisher deploy ../examples/blog

# Each site uses different version tracking
```

### Environment Variables Reference

| Variable            | Required       | Description                     | Example                      |
| ------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `NOSTR_SK_HEX`      | ✅ Yes         | Nostr private key (64-char hex) | `a1b2c3d4...`                |
| `RELAYS`            | ✅ Yes         | Comma-separated relay URLs      | `wss://shu01.shugur.net,...` |
| `NWEB_HOST`         | ⚠️ Recommended | Your domain                     | `yourdomain.com`             |

### Troubleshooting

#### "Cannot find module 'nostr-tools'"

**Solution:** Run `npm install` first

#### "NOSTR_SK_HEX not found"

**Solution:** Create `.env` file:

```bash
echo "NOSTR_SK_HEX=your_hex_key_here" > .env
```

#### "Failed to publish to relays"

**Causes:**

1. Relays offline (try different relays)
2. Events too large (relay limits typically ~64KB)
3. Rate limiting (wait a few minutes)

#### Site Not Loading After Publishing

**Check:**

1. DNS TXT record at `_nweb.<yourdomain.com>` is correct
2. JSON format is valid
3. Pubkey in DNS matches published events
4. Wait for DNS propagation (5-30 minutes)

## Additional Commands

The publisher includes powerful commands for managing your site:

### Check Site Status

```bash
# Your own site
nw-publisher status

# Another site (no private key needed)
nw-publisher status npub1abc123...
```

### Version Management

```bash
# List all versions
nw-publisher versions list

# Show specific version
nw-publisher versions show 1.0.0

# Compare versions
nw-publisher versions compare 0.9.0 1.0.0
```

### Sync Across Relays

```bash
# Ensure all versions exist on all relays
nw-publisher sync
```

### Clean Up Events

```bash
# Preview what will be deleted
nw-publisher cleanup --orphans --dry-run

# Delete orphaned events
nw-publisher cleanup --orphans

# Delete a specific version
nw-publisher cleanup --version 0.1.0

# Full reset (delete all events)
nw-publisher cleanup --all
```

## Media Assets

Large media files (images, videos, fonts) are included as assets (kind 1125) with appropriate MIME types:

```html
<!-- Image -->
<img src="image.png" alt="Image" />

<!-- Video -->
<video src="video.mp4" controls></video>

<!-- Font -->
<style>
@font-face {
  font-family: 'MyFont';
  src: url('font.woff2') format('woff2');
}
</style>
```

The publisher automatically detects MIME types and includes them in the `m` tag of each asset event.

## For Users: Browse Nostr Web Sites

### Install the Browser Extension

The Nostr Web browser extension enables transparent browsing of decentralized websites.

#### Installation Steps

1. **Download** from [Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/nostr-web-browser/hhdngjdmlabdachflbdfapkogadodkif)
2. Or download from [Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/nostr-web-browser/)
3. **Load in Browser:**
   - **Chrome:** Open `chrome://extensions/`, enable "Developer mode", click "Load unpacked"
   - **Firefox:** Open `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`, click "Load Temporary Add-on"

#### Features

- 🌐 **Transparent Browsing** — Just type a URL, automatic Nostr Web detection
- ⚡ **Fast Loading** — Parallel relay fetching with smart caching
- 🔒 **Secure** — Author verification, SHA256 integrity, sandboxed rendering
- 💾 **Smart Caching** — DNS offline-only, site index always fresh
- 📡 **Multi-Relay** — Fetches from multiple relays for redundancy

### Using the Extension

#### Automatic Detection (Recommended)

1. Type any domain in your browser address bar (e.g., `example.com`)
2. Extension automatically checks for `_nweb.<domain>` DNS TXT record
3. If found, loads the Nostr Web site automatically

**How it works:**

```
User navigates to example.com
    ↓
Extension intercepts navigation
    ↓
Checks DNS for _nweb.example.com
    ↓
Found? → Load from Nostr relays
Not found? → Allow normal browsing
```

#### Manual Entry

1. Click the extension icon in your browser toolbar
2. Enter a domain (e.g., `nweb.shugur.com`)
3. Click "Open" or press Enter
4. Page loads in the Nostr Web viewer

#### Settings

Click the ⚙️ icon in the viewer to access:

- **Default Website** — Set a site to load on extension first launch
- **Clear Cache** — Remove all cached DNS records and events (preserves settings)

### Troubleshooting

#### Extension not detecting sites

**Problem:** Typing a domain doesn't load Nostr Web site

**Solutions:**

1. Check DNS TXT record exists at `_nweb.<domain>`
2. Wait for DNS propagation (5-30 minutes after DNS update)
3. Try manual entry via extension popup
4. Check browser console for errors (F12)

#### Slow loading

**Problem:** Pages take more than 10 seconds to load

**Solutions:**

1. Check your internet connection
2. Verify relays are online and responding
3. Clear extension cache (Settings → Clear Cache)
4. Try a different network

#### Scripts not working

**Problem:** JavaScript on page doesn't execute

**Solutions:**

1. Check browser console for CSP errors (F12 → Console)
2. Verify the site was published correctly
3. Try refreshing the page
4. Clear cache and reload

## Best Practices

### For Publishers

1. **Use Multiple Relays** — Include at least 2-3 relays for redundancy
2. **Optimize Assets** — Keep HTML, CSS, JS small (under 64KB per file)
3. **Enable DNSSEC** — Protect against DNS spoofing
4. **Test Before Publishing** — Verify site loads in extension before setting DNS
5. **Cache Media** — Use Blossom for images, videos, fonts

### For Users

1. **Use Latest Extension** — Keep extension updated for bug fixes and features
2. **Verify Authors** — Check site pubkey matches expected author
3. **Report Issues** — Help improve the ecosystem by reporting bugs
4. **Clear Cache** — If site looks outdated, try clearing cache
5. **Check Console** — Use browser console (F12) to diagnose issues

## Example: Complete Publishing Flow

### 0. Setup Nostr Web Publisher

First, install the Nostr Web publisher:

```bash
# Install from npm (recommended)
npm install -g nw-publisher

# Or clone from source
git clone https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nw-publisher.git
cd nw-publisher
npm install
npm link
```

### 1. Create Your Site

```bash
# Navigate to a working directory
cd ~

# Create your site directory
mkdir my-site
cd my-site
```

Create `index.html`:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>My Nostr Web Site</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Welcome to Nostr Web!</h1>
  <p>This site is hosted on Nostr relays.</p>
  <script src="app.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

Create `style.css`:

```css
body {
  font-family: sans-serif;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 50px auto;
  padding: 20px;
}

h1 {
  color: #7b16ff;
}
```

Create `app.js`:

```javascript
console.log('Hello from Nostr Web!');
```

### 2. Configure Publisher

Create `.env`:

```bash
NOSTR_SK_HEX="your_private_key_here"
RELAYS="wss://shu01.shugur.net,wss://shu02.shugur.net"
NWEB_HOST="example.com"
```

### 3. Publish

```bash
nw-publisher deploy .
```

Output:

```
✓ Using keypair from NOSTR_SK_HEX
📝 Processing assets...
[NEW] index.html -> event_id_1
[NEW] style.css -> event_id_2
[NEW] app.js -> event_id_3
✅ Assets: 0 reused, 3 published

📋 Processing manifests...
[MANIF] / -> event_id_4 (new)

🗂️  Updating site index...
[INDEX] version 0.0.1 -> event_id_5 (new)

🚀 Updating entrypoint...
[ENTRY] -> event_id_6 (updated)

📄 Wrote _nweb.txt
```

### 4. Configure DNS

Add TXT record from `_nweb.txt`:

```
Host: _nweb.example.com
Type: TXT
Value: {"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://..."]}
```

### 5. Test

1. Wait for DNS propagation (5-30 minutes)
2. Type `example.com` in browser with extension installed
3. Site loads automatically!

## Links and Resources

- **Extension Repository:** [GitHub](https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nostr-web/tree/main/extension)
- **Publisher CLI:** [GitHub](https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nostr-web/tree/main/publisher)
- **Nostr Protocol:** [nostr.com](https://nostr.com)
- **Shugur Relays:** [shugur.net](https://shugur.net)

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License — See LICENSE file for details.

---

**Nostr Web by [Shugur](https://shugur.com)** — Decentralizing the web, one site at a time 🌐

Commit message:

🔧 Remove Blossom integration references from Nostr Web documentation for media uploads and update optimization tips

src/content/docs/nostr-web.mdx, after:

---
title: Nostr Web
description: Complete guide to browsing and publishing decentralized websites on Nostr
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Nostr Web enables hosting and browsing static websites as Nostr events, creating censorship-resistant, decentralized web publishing.

<Aside type="tip">
  **Quick Start:** Install the browser extension and visit any Nostr Web site like `nweb.shugur.com` to experience decentralized browsing.
</Aside>

## What is Nostr Web?

Nostr Web is a protocol and ecosystem for publishing static websites as Nostr events. Instead of traditional web servers, content is stored across Nostr relays, making sites:

- **Censorship-resistant** — Replicated across multiple relays
- **Verifiable** — Cryptographically signed by the author
- **Decentralized** — No single point of failure
- **Accessible** — Works with existing Nostr infrastructure

## Protocol Details

### Event Kinds

| Kind    | Name          | Type        | Purpose                              |
| ------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------ |
| 1125    | Asset         | Regular     | All web assets (HTML, CSS, JS, etc.) |
| 1126    | Page Manifest | Regular     | Links assets per page                |
| 31126   | Site Index    | Addressable | Maps routes (content-addressed)      |
| 11126   | Entrypoint    | Replaceable | Points to current site index         |

### DNS Bootstrap

DNS TXT record at `_nweb.<host>` contains JSON:

```json
{
  "v": 1,
  "pk": "5e56a8f2c91b3d4e7f0a9c1b2d3e4f5a6b7c8d9e0f1a2b3c4d5e6f7a8b9c0d1e",
  "relays": [
    "wss://shu01.shugur.net",
    "wss://shu02.shugur.net",
    "wss://shu03.shugur.net"
  ]
}
```

**Required Fields:**

- `v` — Version (currently `1`)
- `pk` — Public key (hex or npub format)
- `relays` — Array of WebSocket relay URLs

**Note:** The DNS record does NOT contain the site index event ID. Clients query relays for the most recent entrypoint (kind 11126) from the specified pubkey, which points to the current site index (kind 31126). This enables automatic updates without DNS changes.

### Data Flow

```
DNS TXT (_nweb.example.com)
    ↓
Entrypoint (kind 11126) ← Query by pubkey
    ↓
Site Index (kind 31126) ← Reference via 'a' tag
    ↓
Page Manifest (kind 1126) ← Get for specific route
    ↓
Assets (kind 1125) ← HTML, CSS, JS, etc.
```

**Key Change:** DNS is set once. All content updates happen via new entrypoint events pointing to new site indexes, eliminating DNS propagation delays.

### Security Model

#### 1. Author Pinning

DNS TXT record pins the site's public key. All events **MUST** be authored by this public key. Events from other authors are rejected.

#### 2. Content Addressing & Integrity

All assets (kind 1125) **MUST** include SHA256 content hash in the `x` tag:

```json
["x", "a3f9c8b2e1d0..."]
```

This enables:
- **Content deduplication** - Relays can identify identical assets
- **Integrity verification** - Clients verify content matches the hash
- **Efficient caching** - Assets can be cached by hash

#### 3. Content Security Policy (CSP)

Content is rendered in a sandboxed environment with strict CSP:

**Extension Pages:**
```
script-src 'self' 'wasm-unsafe-eval';
object-src 'none';
```

**Sandboxed Pages:**
```
script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval';
style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline';
```

#### 4. Rate Limiting

- **DNS Queries:** Max 10 per host per minute
- **Global Limit:** Max 100 DNS queries per minute across all hosts

### Caching Strategy

#### DNS Records

- **TTL:** Offline only (no expiration)
- **Strategy:** Always fetch fresh from DNS-over-HTTPS
- **Fallback:** Use cache only when offline

#### Site Index (kind 31126)

- **TTL:** 30 seconds
- **Strategy:** Fetch fresh, content-addressed by `d` tag (truncated hash)
- **Fallback:** Use cache if relays offline

#### Entrypoint (kind 11126)

- **TTL:** 0 seconds (always fresh)
- **Strategy:** Always query relays for latest replaceable event
- **Rationale:** Must detect site updates immediately

#### Page Manifests (kind 1126)

- **TTL:** 30 seconds
- **Strategy:** Fetch fresh, identified by event ID
- **Fallback:** Use cache if relays offline

#### Assets (kind 1125)

- **TTL:** 7 days
- **Strategy:** Content-addressed by SHA256 hash (from `x` tag)
- **Cache:** In-memory with LRU eviction (max 500 entries)

## For Publishers: Host Your Site on Nostr

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or later)
- npm or yarn
- A Nostr private key (hex format)
- Access to Nostr relays
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### Installation

#### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone or download the Nostr Web repository:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nw-publisher.git

# Navigate to the nw-publisher directory
cd nw-publisher
```

Alternatively, install directly from npm (recommended):

```bash
npm install -g nw-publisher
```

Or download from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nw-publisher/releases).

#### 2. Install Publisher (if cloned from source)

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Create global command
npm link
```

This creates a global `nw-publisher` command you can use anywhere.

### Quick Start

#### 1. Set Up Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the publisher directory:

```bash
# Required: Your Nostr private key (64-character hex)
NOSTR_SK_HEX="your_private_key_hex_here"

# Required: Relay URLs (comma-separated)
RELAYS="wss://shu01.shugur.net,wss://shu02.shugur.net,wss://shu03.shugur.net"

# Recommended: Your domain (for DNS TXT record generation)
NWEB_HOST="yourdomain.com"
```
<Aside type="caution">
  **Security:** Never commit `.env` to version control! Add it to `.gitignore`.
</Aside>

#### 2. Publish Your Site

```bash
nw-publisher deploy /path/to/your/site
```

Example:

```bash
nw-publisher deploy ../examples/hello-world
```

#### 3. Set Up DNS

The publisher outputs `_nweb.txt` with instructions. Copy the JSON value into a TXT record:

```
Host: _nweb.yourdomain.com
Type: TXT
Value: {"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://relay.damus.io",...]}
```

**Note:** DNS only needs to be set once! All future site updates happen through new entrypoint events (kind 11126), eliminating DNS propagation delays.

**DNS Provider Examples:**

**Cloudflare:**
```
Type: TXT
Name: _nweb
Content: {"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://..."]}
TTL: Auto
```

**Route 53:**
```
Type: TXT
Name: _nweb.yourdomain.com
Value: "{"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://..."]}"
TTL: 300
```

### Publishing Workflow

```
Static Site Folder
  ├─> Scan files (HTML, CSS, JS, fonts, etc.)
  ├─> Compute SHA256 hashes
  ├─> Sign as Nostr events
  │     └─> Kind 1125: All assets (HTML, CSS, JS, fonts, images)
  ├─> Publish to relays (parallel)
  ├─> Create page manifests (kind 1126)
  ├─> Update site index (kind 31126)
  └─> Update entrypoint (kind 11126)
```

### Smart Caching

The publisher uses intelligent caching to avoid republishing unchanged content:

**Immutable assets** (kind 1125):

- **Cache source:** Nostr relays (queries on every deploy)
- **Cache key:** `${kind}:${content-hash}` (content-addressed)
- **Behavior:** If file unchanged and found on relays, reuses cached event ID
- **Benefit:** Only publishes new/changed assets
- **Reliability:** Always reflects true relay state, no stale local files

**Addressable events** (kind 31126 - Site Index):

- Uses content-addressed `d` tag (first 7-12 chars of content hash)
- Different content = different event
- Each version is preserved on relays

**Replaceable events** (kind 11126 - Entrypoint):

- Always republished to point to current site index
- Only latest event per author is kept
- Ensures clients find the newest version

### Site Structure

**Input (static site):**

```
my-site/
  ├─ index.html       # Home page
  ├─ style.css        # Stylesheet
  ├─ app.js           # JavaScript
  └─ about.html       # Subpage (optional)
```

**Output:**

```
my-site/
  ├─ _nweb.txt        # DNS setup instructions
  └─ _nweb.txt.json   # DNS TXT JSON (ready to paste)
```

### Advanced Usage

#### Force Full Republish

```bash
# Rebuild cache from relays
nw-publisher deploy /path/to/site --rebuild-cache
```

#### Custom Relays

```bash
RELAYS="wss://custom-relay.example.com" nw-publisher deploy /path/to/site
```

#### Multi-Site Publishing

```bash
# Same pubkey, different sites
nw-publisher deploy ../examples/hello-world
nw-publisher deploy ../examples/blog

# Each site uses different version tracking
```

### Environment Variables Reference

| Variable            | Required       | Description                     | Example                      |
| ------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `NOSTR_SK_HEX`      | ✅ Yes         | Nostr private key (64-char hex) | `a1b2c3d4...`                |
| `RELAYS`            | ✅ Yes         | Comma-separated relay URLs      | `wss://shu01.shugur.net,...` |
| `NWEB_HOST`         | ⚠️ Recommended | Your domain                     | `yourdomain.com`             |

### Troubleshooting

#### "Cannot find module 'nostr-tools'"

**Solution:** Run `npm install` first

#### "NOSTR_SK_HEX not found"

**Solution:** Create `.env` file:

```bash
echo "NOSTR_SK_HEX=your_hex_key_here" > .env
```

#### "Failed to publish to relays"

**Causes:**

1. Relays offline (try different relays)
2. Events too large (relay limits typically ~64KB)
3. Rate limiting (wait a few minutes)

#### Site Not Loading After Publishing

**Check:**

1. DNS TXT record at `_nweb.<yourdomain.com>` is correct
2. JSON format is valid
3. Pubkey in DNS matches published events
4. Wait for DNS propagation (5-30 minutes)

## Additional Commands

The publisher includes powerful commands for managing your site:

### Check Site Status

```bash
# Your own site
nw-publisher status

# Another site (no private key needed)
nw-publisher status npub1abc123...
```

### Version Management

```bash
# List all versions
nw-publisher versions list

# Show specific version
nw-publisher versions show 1.0.0

# Compare versions
nw-publisher versions compare 0.9.0 1.0.0
```

### Sync Across Relays

```bash
# Ensure all versions exist on all relays
nw-publisher sync
```

### Clean Up Events

```bash
# Preview what will be deleted
nw-publisher cleanup --orphans --dry-run

# Delete orphaned events
nw-publisher cleanup --orphans

# Delete a specific version
nw-publisher cleanup --version 0.1.0

# Full reset (delete all events)
nw-publisher cleanup --all
```

## Media Assets

Large media files (images, videos, fonts) are included as assets (kind 1125) with appropriate MIME types:

```html
<!-- Image -->
<img src="image.png" alt="Image" />

<!-- Video -->
<video src="video.mp4" controls></video>

<!-- Font -->
<style>
@font-face {
  font-family: 'MyFont';
  src: url('font.woff2') format('woff2');
}
</style>
```

The publisher automatically detects MIME types and includes them in the `m` tag of each asset event.

## For Users: Browse Nostr Web Sites

### Install the Browser Extension

The Nostr Web browser extension enables transparent browsing of decentralized websites.

#### Installation Steps

1. **Download** from [Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/nostr-web-browser/hhdngjdmlabdachflbdfapkogadodkif)
2. Or download from [Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/nostr-web-browser/)
3. **Load in Browser:**
   - **Chrome:** Open `chrome://extensions/`, enable "Developer mode", click "Load unpacked"
   - **Firefox:** Open `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`, click "Load Temporary Add-on"

#### Features

- 🌐 **Transparent Browsing** — Just type a URL, automatic Nostr Web detection
- ⚡ **Fast Loading** — Parallel relay fetching with smart caching
- 🔒 **Secure** — Author verification, SHA256 integrity, sandboxed rendering
- 💾 **Smart Caching** — DNS offline-only, site index always fresh
- 📡 **Multi-Relay** — Fetches from multiple relays for redundancy

### Using the Extension

#### Automatic Detection (Recommended)

1. Type any domain in your browser address bar (e.g., `example.com`)
2. Extension automatically checks for `_nweb.<domain>` DNS TXT record
3. If found, loads the Nostr Web site automatically

**How it works:**

```
User navigates to example.com
    ↓
Extension intercepts navigation
    ↓
Checks DNS for _nweb.example.com
    ↓
Found? → Load from Nostr relays
Not found? → Allow normal browsing
```

#### Manual Entry

1. Click the extension icon in your browser toolbar
2. Enter a domain (e.g., `nweb.shugur.com`)
3. Click "Open" or press Enter
4. Page loads in the Nostr Web viewer

#### Settings

Click the ⚙️ icon in the viewer to access:

- **Default Website** — Set a site to load on extension first launch
- **Clear Cache** — Remove all cached DNS records and events (preserves settings)

### Troubleshooting

#### Extension not detecting sites

**Problem:** Typing a domain doesn't load Nostr Web site

**Solutions:**

1. Check DNS TXT record exists at `_nweb.<domain>`
2. Wait for DNS propagation (5-30 minutes after DNS update)
3. Try manual entry via extension popup
4. Check browser console for errors (F12)

#### Slow loading

**Problem:** Pages take more than 10 seconds to load

**Solutions:**

1. Check your internet connection
2. Verify relays are online and responding
3. Clear extension cache (Settings → Clear Cache)
4. Try a different network

#### Scripts not working

**Problem:** JavaScript on page doesn't execute

**Solutions:**

1. Check browser console for CSP errors (F12 → Console)
2. Verify the site was published correctly
3. Try refreshing the page
4. Clear cache and reload

## Best Practices

### For Publishers

1. **Use Multiple Relays** — Include at least 2-3 relays for redundancy
2. **Optimize Assets** — Keep HTML, CSS, JS small (under 64KB per file)
3. **Enable DNSSEC** — Protect against DNS spoofing
4. **Test Before Publishing** — Verify site loads in extension before setting DNS
5. **Optimize Media** — Compress images and fonts for faster loading

### For Users

1. **Use Latest Extension** — Keep extension updated for bug fixes and features
2. **Verify Authors** — Check site pubkey matches expected author
3. **Report Issues** — Help improve the ecosystem by reporting bugs
4. **Clear Cache** — If site looks outdated, try clearing cache
5. **Check Console** — Use browser console (F12) to diagnose issues

## Example: Complete Publishing Flow

### 0. Setup Nostr Web Publisher

First, install the Nostr Web publisher:

```bash
# Install from npm (recommended)
npm install -g nw-publisher

# Or clone from source
git clone https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nw-publisher.git
cd nw-publisher
npm install
npm link
```

### 1. Create Your Site

```bash
# Navigate to a working directory
cd ~

# Create your site directory
mkdir my-site
cd my-site
```

Create `index.html`:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>My Nostr Web Site</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Welcome to Nostr Web!</h1>
  <p>This site is hosted on Nostr relays.</p>
  <script src="app.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

Create `style.css`:

```css
body {
  font-family: sans-serif;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 50px auto;
  padding: 20px;
}

h1 {
  color: #7b16ff;
}
```

Create `app.js`:

```javascript
console.log('Hello from Nostr Web!');
```

### 2. Configure Publisher

Create `.env`:

```bash
NOSTR_SK_HEX="your_private_key_here"
RELAYS="wss://shu01.shugur.net,wss://shu02.shugur.net"
NWEB_HOST="example.com"
```

### 3. Publish

```bash
nw-publisher deploy .
```

Output:

```
✓ Using keypair from NOSTR_SK_HEX
📝 Processing assets...
[NEW] index.html -> event_id_1
[NEW] style.css -> event_id_2
[NEW] app.js -> event_id_3
✅ Assets: 0 reused, 3 published

📋 Processing manifests...
[MANIF] / -> event_id_4 (new)

🗂️  Updating site index...
[INDEX] version 0.0.1 -> event_id_5 (new)

🚀 Updating entrypoint...
[ENTRY] -> event_id_6 (updated)

📄 Wrote _nweb.txt
```

### 4. Configure DNS

Add TXT record from `_nweb.txt`:

```
Host: _nweb.example.com
Type: TXT
Value: {"v":1,"pk":"npub1...","relays":["wss://..."]}
```

### 5. Test

1. Wait for DNS propagation (5-30 minutes)
2. Type `example.com` in browser with extension installed
3. Site loads automatically!

## Links and Resources

- **Extension Repository:** [GitHub](https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nostr-web/tree/main/extension)
- **Publisher CLI:** [GitHub](https://github.com/Shugur-Network/nostr-web/tree/main/publisher)
- **Nostr Protocol:** [nostr.com](https://nostr.com)
- **Shugur Relays:** [shugur.net](https://shugur.net)

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License — See LICENSE file for details.

---

**Nostr Web by [Shugur](https://shugur.com)** — Decentralizing the web, one site at a time 🌐
